# Custom Difficulties
This is collection of difficulties to be used with the [Custom Difficulty](https://drg.mod.io/custom-difficulty) mod for Deep Rock Galactic.

A list of EnemyDescriptors and PawnStats can be found in [DATA.md](DATA.md)

Note: This README.md is generated by `make.js`. Before commiting changes, run `node make.js` to format difficulties and regerate this difficulty listing.

## [Hazard 1](difficulties/Hazard_1.cd.json)
Vanilla Hazard 1

## [Hazard 2](difficulties/Hazard_2.cd.json)
Vanilla Hazard 2

## [Hazard 3](difficulties/Hazard_3.cd.json)
Vanilla Hazard 3

## [Hazard 4](difficulties/Hazard_4.cd.json)
Vanilla Hazard 4

## [Hazard 5](difficulties/Hazard_5.cd.json)
Vanilla Hazard 5

## [Hazard 5 Carry](difficulties/Hazard_5_Carry.cd.json)
Hazard 5 with all properties that normally scale with player count fixed to 4 player values regardless of player count.

## [Hazard 5 - Praetorian Edition](difficulties/Hazard_5_Praetorian_Edition.cd.json)
Like the other version which replaces grunts with praetorians, but here we adjust the spawn cost to match grunts, increase the ideal spawn size from 3 to 6 and remove the maximum spawn size (was 4). I've also changed the rarity to 1, which is the lowest rarity present in the EnemyDescriptors and the rarity of grunts.

## [Hazard 5 - Praetorian Edition](difficulties/Hazard_5_Praetorian_Edition_v2.cd.json)
This is a demonstration custom difficulty that shows how to remove grunts and create a new praetorian descriptor that takes the place of grunts. The low rarity works like the grunt rarity in that it nearly guarantees praetorians get picked first for any spawns. A future version might demonstrate adjusting spawn costs and size to increase praetorian spawn counts.

## [Hazard 6](difficulties/Hazard_6.cd.json)
Base preset for Ike's [Hazard 6](https://drg.mod.io/ike) mod. Read below for more in-depth customizability options. Unlike the original Hazard 6 mod, there are some differences in this preset:
- The resupply pod cost is set to 80 Nitra compared to the original Hazard 6's 60 Nitra cost.
- The Hazard bonus is set to the default Hazard 5 bonus of 133% rather than the original Hazard 6's 166% (this is an intended limitation of the Custom Difficulty mod).

Otherwise, other settings are still the same as the original Hazard 6 mod: the Hazard 6 enemy, swarm, etc... stats, vanilla spawn cap of 60/60 swarmers and enemies, and increased Doretta resistance.

## Recommended Customizable Settings
These are the recommended settings to balance accordingly. Simply copy-paste this base preset file into the mod, then change the settings accordingly (or leave as-is if you don't want to customize anything).

### "EnemyCountModifier"
These are the values for "EnemyCountModifier" for the respective increased enemy multiplier variants if you wanted to increase enemy count. If you want to set your own multiplier variant that is not on the following list, these values are derived by simply multiplying the default Hazard 6's EnemyCountModifier values (0.95, 1.05, 1.35, 1.65) by that multiplier.
* Hazard 6, 1.25x Enemies - `"EnemyCountModifier": [1.1875, 1.3125, 1.6875, 2.0625]`
* Hazard 6, 1.5x Enemies - `"EnemyCountModifier": [1.425, 1.575, 2.025, 2.475]`
* Hazard 6, 1.75x Enemies - `"EnemyCountModifier": [1.6625, 1.8375, 2.3625, 2.8875]`
* Hazard 6, 2x Enemies - since this is the most popular variant of Hazard 6, there is already a built "[Hazard 6x2](https://github.com/Pugglez/drg-custom-difficulties#hazard-6x2)" preset that you can start from instead.

### "ResupplyCost"
This setting controls how much nitra it costs to call a resupply pod.
* *For regular Hazard 6* -  60 to 80 Nitra are the recommended settings. Although the original Hazard 6 mod has it set to 60 Nitra, Hazard 6 is still easily and consistently doable with the vanilla default of 80 Nitra.
* *For Hazard 6, increased enemy count (1.25x, 1.5x, 1.75x, 2x,)* - 40 to 60 Nitra are the recommended settings.
    * 60 Nitra is still consistently possible to do even with Hazard 6x2. The reason why the recommended range is between 40 to 60 Nitra is because certain factors (nitra generation and overall spawns RNG) can make getting the first 1-2 resupplies very difficulty and on really bad RNG missions, you can suffer nitra starvation even with a good/efficient team.
        * For <2x enemy count, you can go down to 50 Nitra instead of 40 as the lower end.
        *  For Hazard 6x2 and above, 40 Nitra is recommended for a more consistent RNG-less affected experience (although as mentioned above, 60 Nitra is still consistently possible to do with Haz6x2).
        * You might encounter some missions, especially the short/easier missions and Salvage missions in particular, where you have excessive amounts of nitra due to the reduced nitra cost. At this point, it is up to you and your team on restraining yourselves from abusing the excess nitra to balance the difficulty.

### "MaxActiveSwarmers" and "MaxActiveEnemies"
These settings controls the maximum amount of swarmers and enemies, respectively, that can be present in the mission at any given time. In vanilla DRG, this is set to 60 swarmers and 60 enemies which means there can be a max total of 120 combined enemies.

Additionally, the mod allows you to control this cap to be player-count dependent (i.e., `"MaxActiveEnemies": [100, 180, 180, 180]` means the cap is set to 100/180/180/180 enemies for 1/2/3/4 players in the lobby, respectively). Note you can set this to either be an *array of numbers* (like the given example above) or simply a number (i.e., `"MaxActiveEnemies": 180` which is equivalent to `"MaxActiveEnemies": [180, 180, 180, 180]`).

* For simplicity's sake, **just set both MaxActiveSwarmers and MaxActiveEnemies to the same value.**
* For *regular Hazard 6* - Your personal choice. By default, this preset sets it to vanilla DRG's 60 cap across all player count. Do note that even in regular Hazard 5, it is very easy to hit the vanilla spawn cap. So if you want to increase the difficulty, you do want to increase spawn cap.
    * If you're unsure, either leave it as is or follow the same recommended spawn cap for increased enemy count below.
* For *regular Hazard 6, increased enemy count (1.25x, 1.5x, 1.75x, 2x,)* - the recommended settings are `[100, 180, 180, 180]` for 1/2/3/4 players respectively.
    * You can certainly choose to go for a higher cap for each value. However, be aware that FPS performance issues can start to creep in for the players. Also, specifically for solo cap, there is the problem of "wandering enemies" that increases which can be hard to recover from in solo
        * For more in-depth information of this "wandering enemies" problem, read: https://hackmd.io/@rryq0f4CQVC6CMGbnXR4YA/r11B8PdHq
    * Of course, to decrease difficulty, then lower the enemy spawn cap.

### "SeasonalEvents"
Scroll down; this setting is near the bottom of the preset. These settings control which of the seasonal events are allowed to spawn in the mission. In this preset, all seasonal events are enabled. *If you want to prevent a certain event from spawning, simply delete that corresponding line in this setting.*
* For *regular Hazard 6* - Your personal choice. Essentially the question here is if you want to enable or disable the Prospector enemy event (`SE_ProspectorDrone`) specifically, because it is this specific event that is easily triggerable by accident. The other seasonal events (Data Deposit and Rival Router), you can simply choose to not to start if you come across them. Prospector is still consistently doable even for an average team in regular Hazard 6, hence why it is still enabled by default for this preset.
* For *regular Hazard 6, increased enemy count (1.25x, 1.5x, 1.75x, 2x,)* - I recommend disabling the Prospector enemy event (`SE_ProspectorDrone`). Chasing the Prospector and dealing with the increased count of robots and enemies makes this event very hard to do, even for very experienced increased enemy count Hazard 6 players.
    * That's not to say the Prospector is impossible in these increased enemy count variants, it's definitely beatable even in Hazard 6x2 with the correct strategies. It's just that with the chaos of more enemies, the Prospector can be easily woken up by accident which may result in undesirable consequences.

## [Hazard 6x2](difficulties/Hazard_6x2.cd.json)
Hazard 6x2 preset ([Hazard 6](https://drg.mod.io/ike) with 2x enemy count). This is the most popular increased enemy count variant for Hazard 6.
Along with increasing the enemy count to 2x of Hazard 6, this preset sets these following values:

- Resupply Pod cost is 40 Nitra.
  - If desired, can change this to be anywhere from 40-60 Nitra as the recommended setting.
- Enemy spawn cap (both max swarmers and max enemies) is set to 100/180/180/180 for 1/2/3/4 players, respectively.
- Prospector enemy event is disabled

## [Hazard 6x2 - Diversity Edition](difficulties/Hazard_6x2_Diversity_Edition.cd.json)
This plays very similarly to normal Hazard 6x2. It's identical except that EnemeyDiversity is always the max. This results in very different enemy compositions. This variant can bring a little spice when Hazard 6x2 is feeling a little too same-y.

## [Hazard 6x2 Plus](difficulties/Hazard_6x2_Plus.cd.json)
Experimenting with adding some more enemy variants to otherwise normal hazard6x2. Currently only adds sentinels (for their aggressive digging which can disrupt otherwise comfortable positioning) and a fast but weak slasher. Subject to change.

## [Hazard 6x3 40 Nitra](difficulties/Hazard_6x3_40_Nitra.cd.json)
Hazard 6 with 3x enemy count, 40 nitra resupplies, and 180/180 spawn caps. Prospector and Data Vault disabled.

## [Hazard 7](difficulties/Hazard_7.cd.json)
Imported from Ike's [Hazard 7 on Mod.io](https://drg.mod.io/hazard-7)

## [Low Enemy Count](difficulties/Low_Enemy_Count.cd.json)
Not many bugs spawn. Difficult, but beatable.

## [Oops all bulks](difficulties/Oops_All_Bulks.cd.json)
This is a Custom Difficulty version of Milligin's "Oops all bulks" event he often plays on stream. It's usually played on a refinery mission, but other mission types could be interesting as well.

## [starship troopers INSANE](difficulties/Starship_Troopers_INSANE.cd.json)
Huge amounts of very fast enemies with very low hp, resups cost 40. Had no idea what I was doing and it's mostly a meme https://clips.twitch.tv/CogentGoodVultureVoteNay-2QOzDrdDH3kMOWyh

## [Starship Troopers Pro](difficulties/Starship_Troopers_Pro.cd.json)
FOR VETERANS OF THE STARSHIP TROOPERS ELITE MOD, this mod changes spawn size, so expect to be swimming in bugs if you don't kill fast enough. The enemies still have Haz4 specifications (speed*, damage, resistance, ..) as regular Starship Troopers. I don't recommend this mod for player level below 999, and even then I saw high level players rush in the middle of a new cave, die and make the mission fail as everybody risks their live or die in rescue attempts. This is easily comparable to Hazard 9 or Hazard 10.
